---
layout: Blog 4
title: Snowboarding Athletes Rating
---
Mogul skiing consists of moguls and jump features where scores (out of 100) are awarded by judges for technical quality of skier’s turns (50%), aerial manoeuvres (25%) and speed (25%). Final rankings are determined based on the judging scores and FIS points are awarded accordingly. Same FIS points are given to the same competition ranking irrespective of the levels of competition (world cup, continental cup and national cup) and the competitiveness of the participating athlete which can influence the final ranking. Therefore, an unbiased point system is needed to allow us to fairly compare performance/rankings between different levels of competition in competitive mogul skiing. Purpose: To develop a novel rating system for mogul skiing to compare performance across the three levels of competition. Method: Competition results from World Cup (n=140), Continental Cup (n=38) and National Cup (n=10) (2002-2019) were considered. Scores and ranking information were analysed to identify the top 30 ranks in men’s and top 20 ranks in women’s across qualifying and final rounds of a competition to ensure uniform sample size of scores and ranks for each competition. To account for competitiveness of the field, scores above the median score for a given rank were adjusted up and vice-versa. Once these adjusted scores were determined on each level, calibration between levels were done using linear mixed models. Results: Normalizing the scores for all the ranks allowed comparison across athletes within the same level for men and women separately. Then for comparison across levels it was found, the scores for world cups was higher than continental cups by 21.47 and higher than national cups by 27.86 for men. For women, they were 49.65 and 64.10 respectively (p < 0.01). Conclusion: This novel rating system provides an unbiased score that allows for comparisons between different levels of competitions in moguls while accounting for competitiveness of participants. Applying these adjustments allow us to compare performances across the three levels. Find the repo [here](https://github.com/saurav193/Athlete_Rating)